[WIP] Enterprise 24.1 release notes (#75)
seqeralabs/docs: platform_versioned_docs/version-24.1.0/enterprise/release_notes/enterprise_latest.mdx

## Data Studios

[Data Studios](./data-studios.mdx) closes the loop from development, to deployment and insights, allowing you to create, manage, share notebook environments in Seqera with the click of a button. It's now easier than ever to transition Nextflow-generated data to JupyterLab, RStudio, and VSCode environments with pre-built templates that can easily leverage existing compute environments and data in Seqera Platform. Data Studios also makes it seamless to work across teams with multi-user support, built-in authentication, and automatic snapshots as you work that enable collaboration and reproducibility while remaining secure.

## Data Explorer

[Data Explorer](./data-explorer.mdx) is now Generally Available and from version 24.1 it supports multi-file and multi-folder download.

This allows users to bypass the need for cloud credentials or complex DevOps configurations and easily download entire datasets of pipeline results with to share with their team. This is a user-friendly alternative to traditional cloud storage services without the hassle of a command-line interface or intricate user interfaces.

## Extended data roles

> Three additional user roles have been introduced alongside Data Studios. These roles provide flexibility for admins to provide users with the permissions they need, without compromising security. The roles support the following actions:

Author: ```suggestion
The **Connect** user role has been added to the existing user roles. User roles provide flexibility for admins to provide users with the permissions they need, without compromising security. The roles support the following actions:
```

Data Studios closes the loop from development, to deployment and insights, allowing you to create, manage, share notebook environments in Seqera with the click of a button. It's now easier than ever to transition Nextflow-generated data to JupyterLab, RStudio, and VSCode environments with pre-built templates that can easily leverage existing Compute Environments and Data in Seqera Platform.

Data Studios also makes it seamless to work across teams with multi-user support, built-in authentication, and automatic snapshots as you work that enable collaboration and reproducibility while remaining secure.
Get inspired by examples running Data Studios, in the Seqera Platform Community Showcase. 

## Data Explorer

Data Explorer is now Generally Available and from version 24.1 it supports multi-file and multi-folder download. 

This allows users to bypass the need for cloud credentials or complex DevOps configurations and easily download entire datasets of pipeline results with to share with their team. This is a user-friendly alternative to traditional cloud storage services without the hassle of a command-line interface or intricate user interfaces.

## Extended data roles

> ## Micronaut v4

Author: @llewellyn-sl, do you have content around this?

> ## Managed identities

Author: @mbosio85 / @llewellyn-sl: do you have some content around this?

## Seqera Compute

> Seqera Compute is a fully optimized runtime designed to revolutionize scientific computing on Seqera Platform. Now available in private preview, Seqera Compute enables scientists to concentrate on their work by integrating compute, storage, credential management, and performance optimizations into a single, cohesive service.

Reviewer: IMO this sounds like marketing text right now, where can folks get more information about how to leverage it? Are there how-to docs elsewhere on the site this can link to?

Reviewer 2: I agree, this seems it should be on our website as advertising for Seqera Compute, but seems out of place to be in technical documentation.

Author: Great feedback, thanks. I'm debating whether to include this tbh as it's not part of the release notes and was announced in BOS.

Reviewer 3: Seqera Compute is not yet in public preview with this release. So it shouldn't be in these release notes. @mbosio85 can you confirm we should remove mention of Compute here for now?

Reviewer 4: It definitely can be removed. Compute will not be available for enterprise deployment in 24.1

## Data Studios

[Data Studios](./data-studios.mdx) closes the loop from development, to deployment and insights, allowing you to create, manage, share notebook environments in Seqera with the click of a button. It's now easier than ever to transition Nextflow-generated data to JupyterLab, RStudio, and VSCode environments with pre-built templates that can easily leverage existing compute environments and data in Seqera Platform. Data Studios also makes it seamless to work across teams with multi-user support, built-in authentication, and automatic snapshots as you work that enable collaboration and reproducibility while remaining secure.

## Data Explorer

[Data Explorer](./data-explorer.mdx) is now Generally Available and from version 24.1 it supports multi-file and multi-folder download.

> This allows users to bypass the need for cloud credentials or complex DevOps configurations and easily download entire datasets of pipeline results with to share with their team. This is a user-friendly alternative to traditional cloud storage services without the hassle of a command-line interface or intricate user interfaces.

Reviewer: I think you mean "bypass user-owned/managed credentials" since they can leverage the credentials present in the Workspace? Maybe call out the ability to interact with a variety of buckets without having to leave Seqera Platform rather than having to open other browser windows/tooling?

> This allows users to bypass the need for cloud credentials or complex DevOps configurations and easily download entire datasets of pipeline results with to share with their team. This is a user-friendly alternative to traditional cloud storage services without the hassle of a command-line interface or intricate user interfaces.

Author: ```suggestion
This allows users to bypass user-owned/managed credentials and easily download entire datasets of pipeline results with to share with their team, as well as interact with a variety of buckets without having to leave Seqera Platform.
```

## Managed identities

> Seqera managed identities resolve the limitations of SSH access by enabling granular access control to HPC clusters for individual workspace users.

Reviewer: What limitations? I assume this is:
- Anonymization of identity when many folks share the same Service Account key?
- Too broad permissions associated with the SA Key in order to have necessary filesystem permissions to interact with all necessary folder?
- Something else?

Author: @mbosio85, do you have additional content for this section? Thank you!

Reviewer 3: > Anonymization of identity when many folks share the same Service Account key
It enables granular access control for individual workspace users, where before all users used the same SSH key which was one identity on the HPC side
